Azure (+ updated logs C7-R9 + created research logs) (#1114)
rug-cit-hpc/league-of-robots: roles/azure_networking/README.md

# Azure networking

## Intro

This is one of three Azure roles

>  - [azure_general](../azure_general/README.md) role creates Azure group which contains the network, VMs, network interfaces, security groups. This helps with an overview of used and available Azure resources
>  - [azure_networking](../azure_networking/README.md) role defines and mnages the entire stack of network: networks, sub-networks and security groups within the individual Azure group
>  - [azure_computing](../azure_computing/README.md) role defines and manages the VMs, their storage, network interfaces, public IP and private IPs inside the invididual Azure group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [azure_general](../azure_general/README.md) role creates Azure group which contains the network, VMs, network interfaces and security groups. This helps with an overview of used and available Azure resources.
 - [azure_networking](../azure_networking/README.md) role defines and manages the entire network: networks, sub-networks and security groups within the individual Azure group.
 - [azure_computing](../azure_computing/README.md) role defines and manages the VMs, their storage, network interfaces, public IPs and private IPs inside the individual Azure group.
```

## About internal network and public IP

> The network is created with internal IPs for each VMs of the networks.
> Then the public IP is assigned to those interface, together with security_groups.
> Note the cidr for each public network is defined for the internal IPs and not public IPs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The network is created with internal IPs for each VM in the network.
Next, public IPs together with _security_groups_ are assigned to those interfaces.
Note the _CIDR_ for each public network is defined for internal IPs and not for public IPs.
```

## Security groups in general

Explaining security groups on the case of Azure.

The network `type` variable is needed for non-external networks, like `management`
and (not yet written) `storage` network.

When `azure.yml` playbook is deployed, it creates a
 - security group(s)
 - network and
 - subnetwork

When external: true

`group_vars/vars`
```
azure_networks:
  - name: "{{ stack_prefix }}_external"
    cidr: '10.10.1.0/24'
    external: true
    security_group: "{{ stack_prefix }}_public"
```

`static_inventory/stack`

```
azure_flavor: "Standard_DS1_v2"
host_networks:
  - name: "{{ stack_prefix }}_external"
    security_group: "{{ stack_prefix }}_external"
    assign_floating_ip: true
```

## Different security groups

 - For internal management networks, we use variables:

    ```
    azure_networks:
       name: "{{ stack_prefix }}_internal_management"
       security_group: "{{ stack_prefix }}_cluster"
       type: "management"
       cidr: 10.10.1.0/24
    ```

   make sure you define correct CIDR.

>  - For Logservers security groups we must define network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - For `logservers` security groups we must define network
```

    ```
    azure_networks:
       name: "{{ stack_prefix }}_external"
       security_group: "{{ stack_prefix }}_logservers"
       type: "logservers"

>         cidr: 10.10.1.0/24

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       cidr: 10.10.1.0/24
```

Author: :+1:

    ```

>     Logserver are publicly available, so no CIDR needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Log servers are publicly available, so no CIDR needed.
```

## Security groups working together

Note about security groups of Azure
 - they work differently than Openstack
 - security groups can be combined, but they need to be correctly weighted in order to work
 - the weights with lower number have bigger priority

>  - therefore decision was done that the following structure is used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - therefore the following structure is used
```
